foreign
[Music]
when you make an apology that's upright
that's empowered it feels freaking
fantastic it's an awesome feeling it's
like oh right you feel strength in it
you feel responsible you feel empowered
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
[Music]
thank you
Good morning Joe how are you doing oh
man it's been a heck of a day it's yeah
it's actually been like more like a heck
of a week for me frankly it's the you
know we just finished a week-long last
week one of the groundbreakers and
and it's you know super intense you go
from 7 30 in the morning until
10 o'clock at night if you're helping
facilitate that you're doing it seven
days in a row
and so I'm just when I get pretty tired
and then coming back into work it's like
it's been full on there's been no
there's no no shortage of things to do
and so I've just noticed that I'm a
little
um
I don't want to say overwhelmed but I
feel uh a pressure that I that is
definitely like not my standard feeling
of pressure in life and I can't say that
I'm great at enjoying it I'm getting
better but I'm not great at enjoying it
yeah yeah I can resonate this week
there's just a sense of a lot of things
occurring and then I just find myself
having to curate it a little bit be like
sorry I don't have time for this or I'm
not not prioritizing that or yeah I know
you really want my attention over here
and I'd love to give it to you and I
have this other priority yeah and I can
find myself going into this sort of a
sort of like apologetic not enough kind
of energy and yeah which brings us to
what we wanted to talk about today which
is apologies and yeah tell me a little
bit about what brought this topic up for
you today it came up a couple ways the
first was that in groundbreakers we have
a exercise that's based in apologies and
you I know you've done some of them as
well a couple of them that are based in
apologies and so that that brought it up
in my mind and then
I had
um somebody in the business make a you
know mistake and they were apologizing
to me and we had this long conversation
about apologies and I was like oh let's
let's talk about this it was really
interesting it was interesting to hear
how she thought about it and how I
thought about it and so I thought oh
this will be a great conversation yeah
well let's get started with just a
definition like what is what is an
apology and is it always in the form you
know is it always in the form of like
I'm sorry or I apologize or like
can they be subtle overt I think the
form is there probably all the time some
version of I'm sorry or I apologize but
I mean it can mean such radically
different things right so there's the
people who you've met who said who say
like I'm sorry 10 times 20 times a day
and that seems to be a strategy of
making sure people don't get upset at
them
and of course it actually I would argue
increases the amount of times people get
upset with them because
I noticed that when people are scared of
somebody else's anger that the person
who's likely to get angry is more likely
to get angry when someone's scared of
them because they feel alone in it so I
think that that's one one reason people
apologize oh I'm so sorry I'm so sorry
you know that kind of habitual thing
um and then there is
another form of apology which is a way
to shame someone or shame yourself yeah
I think kids get that a lot
unfortunately and
that one's more of
you know feeling bad it's like it's a
way to make somebody feel bad for
something that they've done extracting
an apology out of them or a way for you
to get to feel bad you know a lot of
people are addicted to shame whether
they know it or not so that's something
that they get to do to themselves
another way that I think people use
apologies
is it's a way to ease their own guilt
you know they feel bad they they feel
that shame and it's like their way to
relieve their
guilt and to take away a bad feeling
that could be any example of people who
are apologizing for something and then
not actually
shifting their behavior
in any way exactly yeah and then the way
we use it and the way that it can be
used in the the way that I would
Advocate considering it is that it's an
incredibly powerful tool for
transformation
meaning that if you can apologize to
somebody and be in your power to be
empowered in it to take responsibility
in it
to own that this is the way that I was
and it's not the way that I want to be
like I'd know very few jewels that are
as good at creating transformation
inside me is to apologize in that way if
I apologize with shame then I'm most
likely going to it's going to reoccur
the thing that I'm doing is going to
reoccur but if I apologize with
empowerment and my own responsibility
and then there's a very unknown way to
apologize or I don't know if it's
unknown it's a very strange so I do this
a lot someone's having a hard day I'm
like hey I'm sorry that you're having a
hard day
and they're like well you're not
responsible I'm like yeah I know and I
know I'm not responsible for your
happiness and I'm just I just want you
to know that I feel like I'm I'm seeing
you that you're seen and and that I
don't want this for you that I'm here
with you
and I love using apologies that way like
it feels great it's like for me it's a
great way to just let somebody know that
hey I see that this is not easy for you
and I'm not trying to fix it and I'm
just here with you
for me that that I use that I think
that's used very rarely yeah I think
there's also ways that it can be used
really it's used really often in some
some forms and that kind of points to
how
how there there can even be like a
different way of delivery of this
particular apology for example at a
funeral people will just be like oh I'm
so sorry I'm so sorry I'm so sorry and
it can be you know if you're if you're
one of the bereaved it can be really
difficult to just have everybody be
sorry for you and then it then it
becomes like a platitude and it doesn't
feel like connection it doesn't feel
like being seen correct and I think
that's true for any of these apologies
is that there can be they can be
platitudes they can be kind of oriented
towards an outcome of making people feel
better
rather than for as a as you said a tool
for self-transformation through
responsibility or as a a mode of genuine
connection that's right they can be
automatic or they can be just the thing
that you say or they can be
a way to make somebody feel bad you know
passive aggressive apologies are pretty
amazing too and that's the amazing thing
and so
the power has been taken out of them and
it's you know you get this this kind of
American story of like oh he can't say
he's sorry you know like there's that
like that's not something that he would
ever do it's like that would be
admitting weakness or something to that
effect
and whenever I see somebody who has a
hard time saying I'm sorry it's always
because
somebody extracted an apology from them
when they were younger and it was a way
to make the person small to make the
person feel bad to exact control over
them say you're sorry you know that kind
of a thing it's like you're supposed to
admit that you're wrong
and that's when you're using the apology
as a tool of self-transformation as
responsibility it's not about wrong it's
just about that's not the way that I
want to behave and I'm acknowledging
that I'm taking responsibility for that
yeah say a little bit more on that I'm
it's not about anything being wrong and
you've also spoken to a Shameless
apology as well yeah so literally the
way you would do this in your body is
you would feel that your back is upright
you're not tucked in shame often times
when people feel shame their eyes are
down or their back is hunched or their
tail is tucked in so to speak and and so
it's literally having your body operate
as a good cue about what it feels like
to come from this this place
and to say like there is no shame in
making mistakes there's no shame in
acting in a way that you don't want to
act there's no need for shame in any of
that stuff we all make mistakes multiple
times a day we all do things that we
don't like that makes us human it
doesn't make us something to be ashamed
of and so
how do you acknowledge that in your own
power how do you stay empowered and
say I you know hey this happened and I'm
responsible for this part of it and I
that's not how I want to be and I
apologize to you
instead of like I'm so sorry that I hurt
you you know like you can feel the
difference in the
in the tone when a lot of us learned
apologies as kids as you as you said
they were often extracted or they were
often you know taught to us in such a
way as to model some form of shame or
guilt that we're supposed to feel in
certain situations so that we don't do
it because there's a there's this belief
that shame is a tool for
for justice and transformation yeah
which is quite prevalent
yes
let's just speak to that for a second
let's speak to that so here's the thing
is that
there's something that anybody who's
listening to this podcast has been doing
for
a decade maybe less because they're
younger that they haven't wanted to do
right so there's something there's some
bad habit there's some Behavior there's
some way of being that they haven't
wanted to do but they've been doing it
for 10 years
and the thing that I can tell you about
all any one of those is that um that the
person who's doing that behavior has
shame around it
so what would make us think that shame
stops us from doing something
right like shame is absolutely an
emotion that comes up that we don't want
to feel and so we try to avoid it but at
the same time shame is the thing that
locks
bad habits in place
and so you know we teach shame we shame
our kids you see it happen all the time
but usually the thing that you shame
your kid about is something you're going
to shame your kid about for five or ten
years because they're going to keep on
repeating that pattern it doesn't it
just doesn't work and if you take a a
real look at it
if you say oh here's all the things that
I kept on doing I do feel shame around
those things I tell myself I shouldn't
do them I tell myself I have to change
it I I beat myself up for doing it
that's all shame
or if you look at the things that you
have like a child who keeps on doing
something you're shaming them for the
thing that they keep on doing you can
guarantee it or they just wouldn't keep
on reiterating it
so so shame just doesn't work right and
as you as you extend that to apologies
it's the it's the apologies that are
delivered with shame that tend to be the
kinds of apologies that get repeated
because the actions get repeated that's
right that's exactly right yeah that's
why I say it it needs to be empowered
for it to be a real tool of
transformation right so going back to
how a lot of us were were taught
apologies there is there must be some
value in modeling apologies for children
to learn and what's the distinction that
you would make between modeling an
apology and like guiding a child through
the process of apologizing
and having that be done without shame
and I guess that also points to how we
can be doing it how we can apologize in
Shameless empowered way yes so like with
our kids we've never asked them to say
I'm sorry it's just never happened and
yet oddly our children say they're sorry
all the time
and they say it in a very empowered way
and I think what happens is that for
adults or for kids
when they get to see it which is pretty
rare or more importantly when they get
to feel it when you make an apology
that's upright that's empowered it feels
freaking fantastic
it's an awesome feeling it's like oh
right and you feel strength in it you
feel responsible you feel empowered it's
it's the way that you that we like
feeling and so when you do that and you
do that a couple times you're like oh
yeah this is great why would I not do
this but when you're been told that you
have to do apologies in a way that makes
you feel small that makes you feel like
you're bad that makes you feel like
there's something wrong with you and why
the heck would you ever want to
apologize
except to get out of trouble
right and then you're teaching your
children or you're teaching yourself
that the way that I can navigate danger
in the world is by making myself small
and by
kowtowing to Authority you know instead
of being in myself and being in my truth
right which is a like a form of
self-attack as manipulation yeah or a
form in some people it turns into a form
of self-attack
to prevent other people from attacking
them a lot of people will attack
themselves as a way to make it hurt less
or to have less attack on them it
doesn't work but they that's the thought
process or the emotional
explanation yeah and something
interesting about this this idea of
stopping the hurt is that one way that
we've described shame is that it seems
to be something that just prevents
emotions from being felt it's like when
we have certain feelings that we don't
allow shame is the thing that holds them
in place and then by not letting those
emotions move we don't update our
you know our body and our emotional
system doesn't update to the actual
reality of the situation or in this case
of what we've done and how we really
feel about it deeply and so then that
makes the thing persist
there's something here there's almost a
chicken and an egg kind of thing where
it's like if you're feeling the shame it
might feel really difficult to make an
empowered apology because you're just
feeling shame but then there's also if
you make an empowered apology the shame
in you this fear of being seen the
moment you apologize without shame or
just apologize owning yourself owning
your part you release a lot of that
shame because you're seen
and then that shame moves so sometimes
making that kind of apology can suddenly
just crack open the the lid and a bunch
of emotion moves and it's no longer the
emotion of you know shame and guilt and
stuckness and anguish it becomes just
the emotion of grief
of
whatever whatever is underneath it that
you need to feel to process what
actually occurred and move forward from
there yeah that's what happens people
when the apologies are empowered there
might be grief that moves or fear that
moves
and it and it feels like a cleansing it
feels like it's an emptying out of of
the holding and yeah and if you feel
that moment if you you can close your
eyes and you can think about a time when
you felt shame where it was just like
maybe like it was just this really
powerful moment of Shame for a lot of
people it's like a punch in the gut kind
of feeling
I'm like oh
and you'll notice what it does is it's
like oh and then it's like stops you
it's a punch in the gut it's like oh and
you just stop
it it actually prevents the emotional
fluidity that allows you to change the
habits
and so apologizing without shame brings
that emotional fluidity back and lets
you feel empowered in it so it's not I'm
grieving it's I'm empowered and I'm
grieving there's something else here as
well one of the things that I think
makes it
makes it difficult or creates resistance
to apologizing is that sometimes we
especially if those of us who have this
sort of a self-attack pattern is that we
might believe that if we apologize we're
then more likely to buy the other
person's story wholesale and abandon
ourselves yeah that's right that again
is making yourself small and that's
making making yourself ashamed it's and
it does do that if you
think about it this way a lot of people
use apologies as part of a power
struggle and the person who apologizes
is the loser
and the person who's apologized to is
the winner and it's a it's a really weak
surrogate for being seen it's a really
weak surrogate for being acknowledged
and being respected and being respected
by somebody who respects themselves
so if you think about this in terms of a
relationships you have husbands and
wives and they get into fights those
fights are all about power struggle if
both people felt like oh I'm being seen
and I'm being respected and I'm being
acknowledged there's no fight
the fight is when somebody doesn't feel
seen doesn't feel acknowledged doesn't
feel respected so the apologies is this
the surrogate from for what's really
wanted and it's it's not a bad surrogate
meaning that it's it makes you feel good
for a little while it's like a like a
sugar high or something like that okay I
feel like I won that or I'm in control
for a moment
but it feels a ton better to be
with somebody
that they respect themselves and they
respect you they see themselves and they
see you
and it just feels great whereas if
somebody's respecting you but they're
cowering it doesn't feel great it's not
as good of a feeling but it's better
than feeling like a loser so people go
for it yeah that's interesting to bring
the to bring this notion of power
struggles into into apologies and it
almost seems like
if you bring that into awareness you can
even apologize for the power struggle
itself which is something we've used
when we've talked about fear Triangle
stuff like hey I'm sorry for playing the
victim with you I'm sorry for playing
the role of Savior you know I'm sorry
for
projecting onto you that you are this
way when in reality I'm actually this
way
I've been exhibiting this Behavior
there's this way that apologizing can be
something that just drops you out of
your own role out of your own yeah
whatever whatever it is that you're
stuck in yeah if I'm in a fight with
somebody
I will
stop and look for any way that I can
apologize that's an integrity that's
empowered I'll be like okay what can I
I'm in the fight it means I'm
responsible somehow okay what is it that
I need to what is it not that I need to
that I can apologize for the feels
empowered and I will apologize for it so
if I have that thought man immediately
I'll do it and it feels great and it
often just changes the entire
conversation
I'm sorry I don't want to be talking to
you in this way
I'm sorry for being in a power struggle
with you that's not how I want to be
with you
I'm sorry for raising my voice that's
not how I want to be with you and I know
you deserve better than that yeah that
can that can be one where there's you
know there's various levels of
self-recognition and shamelessness that
can that you can discover because you
could also be like oh okay what Joe said
was when I'm in a fight with somebody
I'm going to look for an apology what's
an apology I can make and it's like oh
you know what yeah I'm really sorry for
putting up with all your Victory crap
for all these years
yeah or or the opposite
um I'm really sorry for being such a bad
boyfriend I'm gonna try harder yeah that
whole thing yeah right both of them you
know don't work right yeah so there's
like a buying of a story that can happen
it's like if your apology is buying some
story then you can go back to our
episode on beliefs when the story falls
apart and see what what emotion might
there really be underneath that and if
the apology brings that emotion then you
might actually be onto something and
there's a quick hack which is when you
apologize never use the word you
never make it about them it's always
about you yeah you know so when we do
our exercises we are always very clear
like the word you is the is the
if you're using that it's not a real
apology yeah and that points to
something else where if if it's for you
and if it's about you this this reminds
me of the of uh one way to see
forgiveness where people talk about
forgiveness being it's not for them you
don't forgive them it's because you know
you're letting them live rent free in
your head or whatever it is the
forgiveness is for you it's for your own
freedom for your own
purification and I see that also just
having a nice mirror here on the apology
side and what is it what is it to just
be apologizing for yourself and not to
be
trying to make anything happen to any
other person I would say that there's a
way of apologizing that you're not
trying to make yourself or anybody else
feel differently which is one way and
then there's a way of apologizing which
is
doing it for yourself but not for them
not to make them feel differently and
then there's the apology of trying to
make them feel differently and if
there's the apology is just in the
ownership of like I I want to
acknowledge the truth of this situation
it's it can be really powerful and it
can be really powerful to do it for you
what I've noticed as I've like the more
and more the apology happens it's not
about me or them the the apology is
it's about freedom for both of us
it just creates Freedom if you can do it
empowered it just creates far more
freedom for everybody
and it's about Freedom it's not about
it's not personal anymore
which seems weird right it's an apology
it feels like one of the most personal
things but it right right it's a very
intimate thing it's very intimate and
then there's this way of doing it where
it's absolutely not it's actually just
recognition which is
this comes back to another thing we've
talked about a lot where there's this
belief that a lot of us have that if you
if you see something that needs to
change there's something you have to do
about it something you have to do about
it by tweaking your own Consciousness by
Shifting the weights on which emotions
are repressed or
invited and that there's something to do
about it yeah right and really like the
the kind of apology you're that we're
talking about here is just something
that is shedding light on something
which reminds me of sort of the there's
this Hawaiian phrase I'm going to get it
totally wrong but it's hoopono or some
something or other like that which
okay I'm getting that entirely wrong but
I think it's like I love you thank you
um yeah I'm sorry please forgive me
thank you I love you yes and then
there's another deeper version of that
which I don't know I wish I could bring
it up in the moment right now but the
translation to it is the light is
brought to it or something like that
where it's not that there's even a right
or wrong it's just that oh you know uh
the light is brought to it I now see yes
that's right so I now see clearly what I
did I see clearly more clearly what what
the dynamic was here and my part in it
and there's no shame or wrong everything
was just unfolding as it was going to
because of the way that we are
conditioned and
the way that the situation played out
with all of our history and now I see
more clearly and that's it just seeing
more clearly just the awareness yeah
it's amazing
that question and self-transformation
what do I do next how counter productive
it can be compared to just awareness and
realization and
you know just exploring and
understanding
and you know you hear people oftentimes
with that they say oh I'm stuck in my
head
you know like a second hour I get it I
get it but I don't crock it or my head
gets it but my body doesn't or I know I
shouldn't smoke but yet I still do some
version of that thing and so what do I
do about it and I'm always saying back
like you don't fully understand it if
you fully understood it you wouldn't do
it like there's just no way to if you
fully understand it so let's just work
on the understanding of it
instead of the doing because you've been
trying to do stuff over it for a decade
it hasn't worked let's just understand
it more fully right yeah and that
smoking example I've heard that a really
good way to approach dropping the Habit
is just to mindfulness just pay really
close attention to what it feels like to
smoke a cigarette
and pay really close attention to what
the sensations actually are and The
Taste and the flavor and
you just might find that it's actually
not as you know that you'd actually been
dissociating or suppressing some of the
actual sensation to get something else
and then shame locked that into place
and I think that could be true for any
any pattern that we tend to apologize
for is what happens if you actually let
yourself fully feel what it's like to be
doing that thing what does it really
feel like to be arguing with your
partner what does it really feel like to
be
in trigger and abusing a co-worker or an
employee a couple of things just that
you brought up there this goes Way
Beyond apologies as well and I'll give
you an example in a second but just on
the smoking front or whatever bad habit
see what it's like if you're out there
and you're like I have a bad habit I
want to see what it's like to give
yourself an upright apology for that
thing on a daily basis I'm sorry for
hurting myself I'm sorry for hurting you
for for smoking this isn't how I want to
be with you
or this isn't how I want to be with
myself whatever feels good like what is
that like to really be in that empowered
apology see what it does to The Habit
the other story recently that I had with
a it was with a young a young woman and
she was she was asking me about this
feeling that she had and she you know
she's relatively young so there wasn't
like a whole bunch of pattern in place
and so she noticed that she was getting
kind of power tripping by wrapping Boys
around her finger because she was very
beautiful and she could wrap Boys around
she was like this doesn't you know I
don't this isn't how I want to be
and what was the like what's the
solution and I was like just feel it
next time you're doing it just feel it
feel it all the way through allow your
like don't
stop feeling any part of it
have like the full and total experience
of it
and two days later
I was talking to her again and I was
like well how'd it go and she said well
I saw myself doing it I felt it all the
way through I was like oh and what
happened and she goes well I didn't
figure anything out but boy I just
stopped doing it didn't feel good that
was it like you know and we think that
we have to figure it out and then we
have to figure out action plan and a
strategy and and it's like no it's just
about allowing yourself to feel it all
the way through and I think that really
applies to apologies is that if you're
apologizing from an upright place
um from an empowered position it does
require you to feel it right which and I
can imagine somebody listening to this
episode or even maybe a lot of our
episodes where there's there's this
theme of there's nothing to do just feel
it just experience it and then the part
that wants to do something and really
like take action is frustrated like oh
like well I'm just supposed to notice
things and uh it makes me think of
something I've been recently doing some
morning Pages where I just write for a
couple pages every morning whatever
comes up and I've been finding it to be
really helpful for getting into getting
into what is underneath something and I
could today before we did this episode
on apologies I started kind of writing
down various apologies
for apologies to myself versus apologies
to any anything in my life anybody in my
life and uh
it sounds like you could if you if
you're so inclined to do something about
this you could do the introspection and
write an apology or say an apology say
it into a mirror if you want to and then
feel what comes up do you feel shame
well then what is that shame what's
underneath a shame maybe write about
that a little bit yeah it's kind of a
weird thing because we're saying don't
do stuff but at the same time we've said
oh here's an apology of practice here's
like the page writing is something that
we do during
master class every day right and like
master class is full of action and
feeling just to stop and feel is an
action in some way so it's it's the
pointer of don't do anything is it's not
that we're saying actually don't do
anything
what we're saying is that trying to
figure it out and getting an action plan
and a strategy doesn't work as good as
understanding and feeling that I think
the more accurate way it doesn't work as
well but it also it can be useful I mean
I I wouldn't say don't do it at all
right yeah or you could say that the the
action plan and the strategy will be
effective to the extent that it is
structured to bring you into yourself
into your feeling into into awareness
that's even better I said yeah a lot of
our action plans are just ways to get
out of the feeling yeah exactly that's
right or to organize our life so that we
don't have to hit that feeling again
yeah that's right instead of learning to
be free inside of the feeling so we've
talked a lot about giving apologies and
delivering them and sort of practicing
and introspecting around them and we
haven't talked that much about receiving
apologies no what it's like to receive
the various kinds of apologies that
we've talked about yeah it's an
interesting thing some people are really
good at receiving apologies it's like um
receiving compliments a lot of people
want apologies but then they don't
receive them so they're constantly a
Hungry Ghost what I notice is that
people who can receive them which means
that you're letting it you're letting
yourself feel it all the way through and
bring up any emotion that it might come
up and when I say all the way through it
literally feels like I'm I have armor up
and I'm protecting myself or I'm more
like a permeable and the thing can just
move right through me
that's the experience that I have and
that when I make that pointer to people
they usually can get it and if you can
fully feel that apology all the way
through
instead of saying oh don't feel bad or
oh you know he doesn't mean it or you
know all the thousands of ways that
people hold the apology back
then you can actually feel the relief
and often some other emotions that come
with it right it sounds like there's a
distinction here as well between being
permeable and letting the letting the
apology move through you and being
somehow overtaken or bowled over by the
apology or the energy of the apologies
for example if somebody gives you
delivers to you an apology with shame
and you take on that shame and you feel
that shame and then that makes you feel
like you've actually done something
wrong and then you find yourself and
then no I'm sorry no I'm sorry what kind
of situation I would describe it
slightly differently I would describe it
as if you feel the apology all the way
through and let it permeate you but
don't buy the story yeah if you just
feel it is like the only story that you
have to buy into is here's this person
acknowledging
and trying to create connection and you
just feel that
feel that they're trying to take
responsibility or they're not it's okay
like they're
trying to get you not to hit them but
whatever that is you know or hurt them
whatever it is to allow that full
feeling to move through you is a
remarkable thing it's a great call out
yeah I feel like sometimes it's a it's a
story that we might identify as a story
and sometimes there's just some
emotional response so if if somebody
apologizes to us in sort of a passive
aggressive way and they're like yeah I'm
sorry I've been sorry I let you do that
it was my fault that I let this happen
with a subtle implication that you're
wrong or that you're bad and then there
could be just energetically this feeling
in you that you feel the feeling of the
apology you don't actually identify what
it is in the words that is incorrect
because you're you're in the story
you're not even seeing the story yeah
but you can you can detect it somewhere
in your body you're closing down and
you're constricting and then it's like
what is what is that constriction what
do I feel like I'm defending right now
yeah I think that if you're constricting
and defending then that's when you know
that something's not
meaning that if somebody does a passive
aggressive apology to me and they're
like you know yeah I'm really sorry that
I couldn't read your mind must be as an
example then you know if I feel that all
the way through if I allow that feeling
all the way in my system and I don't
take it personally if I don't buy the
story then I easily can say something
like
oh wow it feels like you still want me
to be upset at something I've done what
are you what are you feeling that I need
to take responsibility for that I'm not
taking responsibility for it's when my
constriction comes that I'm just like
okay yeah sure yeah sure yeah yeah
thanks for that apology you know or
whatever response that I would have yeah
and I could even see the the exact words
of the response you had if there's
constriction can still sound defensive
totally like yeah okay well tell me tell
me what I'm doing wrong then yeah yeah
or yeah okay yeah I see that I'm doing
something wrong what did I do like yeah
any yeah it's the tone it's it is the
shame that you're saying it with the
uprightness that you're saying it with
that matters or the defensiveness so
yeah I would say just to sum it up to
receive an apology the way to do it is
the same way that you
given apology in your empowered State
allowing it to be felt all the way
through yeah beautiful
that sounds like an episode a pleasure
to be with you as always Brett I look
forward to we get to talk next week too
yeah I'm excited really excited as well
have we done one on shame oh no there's
been a coaching session
on shame but I think I don't think we've
actually done we could do we've been
yeah it's been in our list to do to do
one on shame for the emotion series
let's do that so that we can leave that
as a little bit of a teaser for people
who want to learn more about shame all
right wonderful all right talk to you
soon all right you too bye thanks for
listening to the art of accomplishment
if you enjoyed what you heard today
please subscribe and rate US on your
podcast app we'd love your feedback so
feel free to send us questions or
comments you can reach out to us join
our newsletter or check out our courses
at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]